Retinopathy means damage to the retina,
a layer of light-sensitive nerve
tissue lining the back of the eye.
The retina is filled with tiny
blood vessels called capillaries.
They carry blood containing
oxygen and nutrients to the retina.
Too much sugar in your blood
can cause changes to these blood vessels,
which can lead to vision problems
and even blindness.
There are several types of diabetic retinopathy.
In its most severe form,
new, fragile blood vessels grow in the retina.
They sometimes grow into the vitreous,
the clear jelly-like substance that
fills the center of your eye.
These fragile blood vessels may leak or bleed.
Small scars can develop on the retina
and in the vitreous.
Diabetic retinopathy can occur in
people with both type 1 and type 2 diabetes.
Early on, there may be no symptoms.
But as it progresses,
diabetic retinopathy can cause many vision problems
including blurred vision,
difficulty seeing at night,
spots or floaters,
dark or empty areas in your vision,
and eventually, total vision loss.
It is important for anyone with diabetes
to have their eyes checked regularly,
and for anyone with ongoing vision problems
to be checked out by a doctor.